And The Last Lecture we added this alert to check if the user really wants to add a quote now We need
a place to manage the state of our app kind of word to manage the state of our codes to see which quotes
are favorites and which quotes aren't.
Now state management and angle are too.
There are a couple of ways to do that but both in one.
The one angle to read is great.
Out of the box is to use a service.
Now I will add such a service and I will edit the source folder in a newly created subfolder named folder
services and this is kind of a good folder structure to have your pages in a separate folder services
in a separate folder and if you were to add other components something will do later in of course you
could create a separate subfolder for components too.
As a side note if your app becomes more complex you you're of course free to change the structure and
structure by feature instead of structure by function as we are currently doing it.
So any services folder I want to create a news service and I'll name the file quote not yet quote stopped.
Yes I could also name it quotes DOD service or TS.
But since I store it in the services folder it's pretty clear that it is a service right.
So in there I'm going to export a class which will name quote's service and disk class year should have
an array which holds all the quotes I marked as favorites.
So here are simply say private favorite quotes and this should be an empty array.
Now we can also define the type because that type of course is of type.
Quote array.
So make sure to import code from your own interface from the interface we stored in the data folder.
And here with this we're assigning what telling typescript that we will actually store all our favorite
quotes in history.
We need a couple of methods in the service.
I'd say we need a method which allows us to add a new favorite quote.
So I'll name it add quote to favorites of course you may choose another name and this is of type.
This gets a quote which of course is of type quote and then there I simply want to take my favorite
quotes array and push this new quote on it.
I also want to be able to remove a quote right.
So we have removed quote from favorites and we haven't implemented a button to do so yet but will do
so in the future.
And I also expect to get the quote which should get removed and keep in mind each quote has a unique
ID.
This will become important when identifying quotes later on.
So with this we have to remove quotes function here.
I want to access my favorite quotes and use the splice method to get rid of one.
I need the position of the quote first and I can get this like this.
Store it in a new constant and then simply search my favorite quotes.
Use defined index method which will give me the position of a quote fulfilling a certain criteria.
Find index is a boat in Meffert uses or expect to get a function as an argument.
This function will be executed by javascript so to say automatically it will give us the current DD
quote It currently has a look at so it scans through all the quotes or for all the elements which we
know are quotes and will pass them into this function one by one so that we can check them.
So this is of type.
Quote Of course since our area since our array only holds codes and then has a function we have to specify
our own logic which decides if this is the quote were looking for or not.
So we have to return true or false if this is the quote you are looking for.
And it is to quote you were looking for IV.
And here it should say quote elements and some already using the named quote.
Here in the argument list.
So this is to quote We're looking for.
If the element of this quote We're looking at in his favorite quotes array.
If the idea of this quote matches the idea of the quote We're passing as an argument to this remove
function This will then return true equal time with two.
Or check with two equal signs of course.
If those IDs match so we then have the position and then I want to splice exactly one element.
This is how a mover element from my array.
The last method we need is d get favorite quotes method which will simply give us back the array and
I could simply return the whole array.
But I will use slice with no arguments to basically create a copy of that array.
You know normally in the script we pass arrays and objects by reference and not copies of them.
Here I want to really pass a copy to not be able to directly edit this array from outside so dead.
This really is a private array and not kind of editable from outside.
So if this week will the quote service we're now able to store in quotes remove them and get them the
next step of course is to hook up our library page here or our quotes page to be precise to be able
to add a quote to our favorites list.
Let's do this in the next video